<<Script Title here>>

Below is an example of script:
Open your PPT file (slide # 1)

Good morning/afternoon, my name is TIN and here are my group members Duy and Deng. We are giving a presentation on Outsourcing. We will focus on answering 3 question.First, What is outsourcing and second, The advantage and disadvantage of it.

Slide # 2 (Agenda slide)
.
.
.
Slide # 3 
In part 1: What is outsourcing, at first, let’s go through the definition of outsourcing. As you can see, Outsourcing is an arrangement in which one company hires another company to perform their internal business activities, jobs, tasks processes (Mccarthy & Anagnostou, 2004). Sometimes, outsourcing also involve in using human resource or other resources of external organizations. These resources are expertise for certain business functions. It is especially useful when company deal with the lack of workforce or any resources for business growth.
. Slide 4#  
Now we are talking about the reason for outsourcing. It means why outsourcing. There are some reasons why a company need outsourcing:
Firstly, the company realized that they need to expanse their business, but they don’t have enough internal employee to keep up with growing pace. Therefore, they can hire dedicated outsourced staff from another company to be responsible their business operation when and where they need.
Additionally, the company may need to build a new project or a process in short term. To reduce time and cost they can look for a outsource team which may take over workload immediately. As a result of this, the company do not have to put their effort to internal worker for training.
Moreover, outsource firm often provide management service as well as outsource service. It helps host company reduce management costs and utilize human resources for critical tasks.

. Slide 5#
Next, what you can see is a brief history of outsourcing. “outsourcing” is derived from the phrase “outside resourcing”. It is said that this term is originated in 1981.
In early of 20th century, the most common company model used to be a large company which directly controlled and managed all of assets in their own. After Industrial Revolution, companies got trouble in developing their business including increase profits and market.
In the 1950s and 1960s, the competition in business resulted in every company need to expanse their business and widen their product lines to keep up their profits.
Consequently, In the 1970s and 1980s, the large company realized that they should spend their effort into their core strength, core business in order to accelerate their competitiveness in the market. From that time, the outsourcing concepts were emerged as a need.
Finally, from early 21st century to present, outsourcing become a growing trend in business, but it has been developing by several steps. At the first stage of outsourcing, the external company provide some resources for a host company which have no experience or ability to perform it. Next stage, outsourcing support service became popular, outsource service company can provide organizations with business function that is not a key business of them. For example, accountant, recruitment, human resource management, cleaning services. At current stage, outsourcing it is called strategic partnership. The company would rather choose some the core business for outsourcing as long as outsource service can do better. As a result of this, there are more and more outsource company which is specialized for outsourcing.
. Slide 6#
Now let’s jump into types of outsourcing: there are four main types of outsourcing: Professional outsourcing, information technology (IT) outsourcing, manufacturing outsourcing, project outsourcing.
 
. Slide 7#
Professional outsourcing is the most popular type of outsourcing because it spread out many business fields and include any type of specialized, professional services: legal documentation, accountant, sale, administrative jobs… some example of professional outsourcing: hiring an accountant service company to perform accountant activities…
IT outsourcing is the fastest growing outsourcing. It is considered as a part of Professional outsourcing and it can be divided into domestic IT outsourcing and or international IT outsourcing. At the beginning, IT outsource services is provided by local IT provider. Today, thanks to Internet communication become closer than ever before, which allows IT services company to connect with foreign clients. IT services vary on many aspects: IT Infrastructure, IT support, software outsourcing...For example: hiring outsource company to develop whole or some function of software or hiring remote developers from outsource company to work internally company.

. Slide 8#
Manufacturer Outsourcing is another common outsourcing service today, which involve in transferring producing goods process to another manufacturer. The outsourcing service can be some certain parts of product or entire product. For example, in automobile industry, car manufacturer may have contractions with providers for producing car wheel or assembling car window. Another example in smart phone manufacturer like Apple, they outsource whole iPhone producing process in China to make advantage of supply chain in there.

Project outsourcing is useful when the company get difficulty in managing a whole project or some phase of the project. The aim of this outsourcing is to address the problem related to lack of resource in the company like they do not have enough skilled employees or budgets, or time constrain of the project. They can outsource an entire project or some critical portion of project.
. Slide 9#

DENG PART

Hello,everyone. My name is Deng Xuhui. Welcome to my pressentation. I think you've seen what outsourcing is through my partner's narrative. Let me show you the advantages of outsourcing.

. Slide #
In the right context and deployed shrewdly, outsourcing can be a fantastic way for business owners to improve efficiencies and bolster their company’s bottom line. These are some top reasons of outsourcing. We can see some ,such as focus on core, improve quality, increase speed to usage and so on. All of them are advantages of outsourcing and i will introduce some of them later.

. Slide #
Fisrt advantage that I want to talk about is you can get more experts. Your core team might be fantastic at a few things, but nobody is perfect at everything. By outsourcing particular tasks, companies are often able to substantially improve performance by drawing on the niche skills of experts in certain fields.
. Slide #
Next advantage I want to show you is things get done fast. One of the top reasons businesses tend to outsource work is because it will get done quicker. If you’re working with a limited number of staff members, you can get things done a whole lot quicker by passing time-consuming tasks on to freelancers or external agencies.

. Slide #
You can reduce cost is also a significant advantage. As one might imagine, outsourcing piecemeal work is almost always going to be cheaper than hiring permanent full time staff. Not only will you save time and money on recruitment, but your profit will also be extended than s to shorter overheads.
(click)
The diagram below shows how electronics OEM executives reduce costs and save money by outsourcing to contract electronics solutions providers vs. keeping manufacturing and related activities in-house (outlined in red). Each of the seven columns (headers outlined in blue) represent increasingly embracing a vertically-integrated outsourcing model to further reduce OEM materials cost. This diagram shows us how outsourcing can reduce costs clearly.
. Slide #
These are some other advantages. Like You’re Able to Focus on What Matters, You Can Share Some Risk…….
All this shows us the advantages of outsourcing. Next, let us welcome Danny to show the disadvantages of outsourcing.
 . Slide #
 
DUY PART

Many companies and businesses concern about outsourcing and offshoring their goods and services, because it brings huge benefits for them as Arthur mentioned before. However, there are still several disadvantages that need to be handled while outsourcing and offshoring. So, outsourcing sometime doesn’t warranty to bring expected profits to corporates (Harland, Knight, Lamming & Walker, 2005, p.835). Because they have to face with several challenges while outsourcing such as loss of control, quality issue, different time zone, security and confidentiality. 
. Slide #
Firstly, while companies give other company the tasks to perform, they actually give the management control of this function to outsourcing company. The outsourced companies will not know what happen during the process of making their products. Sometime they cannot involve in the process until it is finished. Moreover, the management in outsourcing company has different techniques and strategies to perform the tasks that outsourced company might not control. Rochester (1995) argues that the outsourced companies might loss control if they are not involved in the process of making their products. So, outsourced companies have to make a clear contract before starting the works.
. Slide #
 In addition, the outsourcing company usually does task for more than one company at the time. So, it leads to the lack focus on the products, quality issues and turnaround time.  Rochester (1995) claims that since the contract will be pay with fixed price, the outsourcing company will minimize their expenses by purchasing low standard material to make the products (p. 80). Hence, it leads to poor qualities as long as they meet the requirements of the agreement.
. Slide #
Rochester (1995) argues that different time zone can negatively affect to employees’ productivity. It also makes it is difficult to communicate for international business (p. 80). So, it leads to slow turnaround time for the products and services. Organisations have to consider the gap where they have less time or more time for establishing the tasks. They also have to consider the time of the transportation that time for transport the task between two or more locations or countries to complete the tasks before the due date.
. Slide #
Last but not least, the security risk is one of the most important things. The outsourcing companies will require some private information or confidential information to perform the task. However, during the time the outsourcing company produces the tasks, information can be leaked to third parties. Holcombe (2005) argues that personal data can be hacked or stolen during the outsourcing process that is really dangerous (p. 551). So, the outsourced companies have to sign the agreement to protect their data and information, and the penalty might occur if the information is lacked.

In conclusion,
There is no doubt outsourcing becomes one of the most important strategy for business success of companies today. More and more outsourcing services are introduced to adapt various market demand.

# slide References
Mccarthy, & Anagnostou. (2004). The impact of outsourcing on the transaction costs and boundaries of manufacturing. International Journal of Production Economics, 88(1), 61-71.
Harland, C., Knight, L., Lamming, R., & Walker, H. (2005). Outsourcing: Assessing the risks and benefits for organisation, sectors and nations. International Journal of Operations & Production Management, 25(9), 831-850. Retrieve from https://search.proquest.com/docview/232337858?accountid=10016
Holcombe, J. K. (2005). Solutions for regulating offshore outsourcing in the service sector: Using the law, market, international mechanisms, and collective organisation as building blocks. Article and Essays, 7(3), 550-552. Retrieve from https://www.law.upenn.edu/journals/jbl/articles/volume7/issue3/Holcombe7U.Pa.J.Lab.&Emp.L.539%282005%29.pdf
Rochester, J. H. (1995). Advantages and disadvantages of outsourcing. Lockheed Martin Government Electronic Systems. Retrieve from  https://ieeexplore-ieee-org.ezproxy.cqu.edu.au/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=554865&tag=1
